{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2638
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times-Bold;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww28600\viewh18000\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs24 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
chris@christophers-MacBook-Air-2 python % grep -n "terror" monk.txt\

\f1\b0 \
181:carried with it universal conviction. His voice at once distinct and deep was fraught with all the terrors of the Tempest, while He inveighed against the vices of humanity, and described the punishments reserved for them in a future state. Every Hearer looked back upon his past offences, and trembled: The Thunder seemed to roll, whose bolt was destined\'92 to crush him, and the abyss of eternal destruction to open before his feet. But when Ambrosio changing his theme spoke of the\
508:involuntarily read the first words. He started back with surprise! The Nun had turned round on hearing his voice: She perceived her letter in his hand, and uttering a shriek of terror, flew hastily to regain it.\
554:fall the curse of my death and my unborn Infant\'92s! Insolent in your yet-unshaken virtue, you disdained the prayers of a Penitent; But God will show mercy, though you show none. And where is the merit of your boasted virtue? What temptations have you vanquished? Coward! you have fled from it, not opposed seduction. But the day of Trial will arrive! Oh! then when you yield to impetuous passions! when you feel that Man is weak, and born to err; When shuddering you look back upon your crimes, and solicit with terror the mercy of your God, Oh! in that fearful moment think upon me! Think upon your Cruelty! Think upon Agnes, and despair of pardon!\'92\
1298:At this moment I heard a trampling of Horses. Oh! how dreadful was the sound to my ears. A cold sweat flowed down my forehead, and I felt all the terrors of impending death. I was by.no means re-assured by hear-\
1521:Chambers, She wept and wailed there to the universal terror of the Inhabitants. In these nocturnal excursions She was seen by different People, who all describe her appearance as you behold it here, traced by the hand of her unworthy Historian.\'92\
1533:Here She pointed to a burlesque figure of an old Woman inanattitudeofterror.\
1717:taken place, accident had not permitted her to quit her chamber at the appointed time. At length She ventured into the haunted room, descended the stair-case leading into the Hall, found the Gates open as She expected, and left the Castle unobserved. What was her surprize at not finding me ready to receive her! She examined the Cavern, ranged through every Alley of the neighbouring wood, and passed two full hours in this fruitless enquiry. She could discover no traces either of me or of the Carriage. Alarmed and disappointed, her only resource was to return to the Castle before the Baroness missed her: But here She found herself in a fresh embarrassment. The Bell had already tolled \'91Two:\'92 The Ghostly hour was past, and the careful Porter had locked the folding gates. After much irresolution She ventured to knock softly. Luckily for her Conrad was still awake: He heard the noise, and rose, murmuring at being called up a second time. No sooner had He opened one of the Doors, and beheld the supposed Apparition waiting there for admittance, than He uttered a loud cry, and sank upon his knees. Agnes profited by his terror. She glided by him, flew to her own apartment, and having thrown off her Spectre\'92s trappings, retired to bed endeavouring in vain to account for my disappearing.\
1774:\'91Such is the curse imposed on me,\'92 he continued: \'91T am doomed to inspire all who look on me with terror and detestation. You already feel the influence of the charm, and with every succeeding moment will feel it more. I will not add to your sufferings by my presence. Farewell till Saturday. As soon as the Clock strikes twelve, expect me at your chamber-door.\'92\
1803:never shall He know a night devoid of terror, unless He engages to collect my mouldering bones, and deposit them in the family vault of his Andalusian Castle. Then let thirty Masses be said for the repose of my Spirit, and I trouble this world no more. Now let me depart! Those flames are scorching!\'92\
1947:protect me against my conscience, against myself? I dare not dwell upon these thoughts; They will drive me mad. I have taken my resolution: Procure a dispensation from my vows; I am ready to fly with you. Write to me, my Husband! Tell me, that absence has not abated your love, tell me that you will rescue from death your un- born Child, and its unhappy Mother. I live in all the agonies of terror: Every eye which is fixed upon me, seems to read my secret and my shame. And you are the cause of those agonies! Oh! When my heart first loved you, how little did it suspect you of making it feel such\
2219:conferred upon us by your interference with the Marquis. Your presence makes me tremble: I fear, lest it should inspire her with sentiments which may embitter the remainder of her life, or encourage her to cherish hopes in her situation unjustifiable and futile. Pardon me, when I avow my terrors, and let my frankness plead in my excuse. I cannot forbid you my House, for gratitude restrains me; I can only throw myself upon your gen- erosity, and entreat you to spare the feelings of an\
2437:With every instant Ambrosio\'92s amazement increased. Another hour elapsed, after which the same light again appeared and was lost again as suddenly. It was accom- panied bya strain ofsweet but solemn Music, which as it stole through the Vaults below, inspired the Monk with mingled delight and terror. It had not long been hushed, when He heard Matilda\'92s steps upon the Stair- case. She ascended from the Cavern; The most lively\
2561:tions had been raised high by general report, but She found them far exceeded. Ambrosio, endowed by nature with powers of pleasing, exerted them to the utmost while conversing with Antonia\'92s Mother. With persuasive eloquence He calmed every fear, and dissipated every scruple: He bad her reflect on the infinite mercy of her Judge, despoiled Death of his darts and terrors, and taught her to view without shrinking the abyss of eternity, on whose brink She then stood. Elvira was absorbed in attention and delight: While She listened to his exhortations, confidence and comfort stole in-\
2688:This was an untruth, but She was unconscious of its falsehood: She knew not the nature of her sentiments for Lorenzo; and never having seen him since his first visit to Elvira, with every day his Image grew less feebly im- pressed upon her bosom. Besides, She thought of an Husband with all a Virgin\'92s terror, and negatived the Friar\'92s demand without a moment\'92s hesitation.\
2751:infernal Spirits were submissive to his commands. Why shrink you from me? I understand that enquiring look. Your suspicions are right, though your terrors are un- founded. My Guardian concealed not from me his most precious acquisition. Yet had I never seen you, I should never have exerted my power. Like you I shuddered at the thoughts of Magic: Like you I had formed a terrible\
2758:have been my joy at discovering, that my terrors were imaginary: I saw the Demon obedient to my orders; I saw him trembling at my frown, and found, that instead of selling my soul to a Master, my courage had pur- chased for myself a Slave.\'92\
2761:giving and receiving laws, between serving and com- manding? Awake from your idle dreams, Ambrosio! Throw from you these terrors so ill-suited to a soul like yours; Leave them for common\
2767:_punishment; \'92Tis not respect for God which restrains -you, but the terror of his vengeance! Fain would you\
2808:moment: The shame of betraying his terrors, while in Matilda\'92s presence, had induced him to repress them; But now that he was abandoned to himself, they resumed their former ascendancy. He trembled at the scene, which He was soon to witness. He knew not how far the delusions of Magic might operate upon his mind, and possibly might force him to some deed, whose commis- sion would make the breach between himself and\
2823:would only have excited his attention and curiosity: In the present, his predominant sensation was that of terror. His imagination totally engrossed by the ideas of sorcery and Spirits, He fancied that some unquiet Ghost was wandering near him; or else, that Matilda had fallen a Victim to her presumption, and was perishing under the cruel fangs of the Demons. The noise seemed not to approach, but continued to be heard at intervals. Some- times itbecame more audible, doubtless, as the sufferings of the person who uttered the groans became more acute and insupportable. Ambrosio now and then thought, that He could distinguish accents ;and oncein particular He was almost convinced, that He heard a faint voice exclaim,\
2835:Ambrosio started, and expected the Demon with terror. What was his surprize, when the Thunder ceasing to roll, a full strain of melodious Music sounded in the air. At the same time the cloud dispersed, and He beheld a Figure more beautiful, than Fancy\'92s pencil ever drew.\
3078:The Music ceased: The Performers dispersed, and silence prevailed through the Street. Antonia quitted the window with regret: She as usual recommended herself to the protection of St. Rosolia, said her accustomed prayers, and retired to bed. Sleep was not long absent, and his presence relieved her from her terrors and in-\
3105:A frightful dream had represented to her Antonia on the verge of a precipice. She saw her trembling on the brink: Every moment seemed to threaten her fall, and She heard her exclaim with shrieks, \'91Save me, Mother! Save me!\'97Yet a moment, and it will be too late!\'92 Elvira woke in terror. The vision had made too strong an\
3126:This horrible act was no sooner perpetrated, than the Friar beheld the enormity of his crime. A cold dew flowed over his limbs; his eyes closed; He staggered to a chair, and sank into italmost as lifeless, as the Unfortunate who lay extended at his feet. From this state He was rouzed by the necessity of flight, and the danger of being found in Antonia\'92s apartment. He had no desire to profit by the execution of his crime. Antonia now appeared to him an object of disgust. A deadly cold had usurped the place of that warmth, which glowed in his bosom: No ideas offered themselves to his mind but those of death and guilt, of present shame and future punishment. Agitated by remorse and fear He prepared for flight: Yet his terrors did not so compleatly master his recollection, as to prevent his taking the precautions necessary for his safety. He replaced the pillow upon the bed, gathered up his garments, and with the fatal Talisman in his hand, bent his unsteady steps towards the door. Bewildered by fear, He fancied that his flight was opposed by Legions of Phantoms; Where-ever He turned, the disfigured Corse seemed to lie in his passage, and it was long before He\
3139:succeeded in reaching the door. The enchanted Myrtle produced its former effect. The door opened, and He hastened down the stair-case. He entered the Abbey unobserved, and having shut himself into his Cell, He abandoned his soul to the tortures of unavailing remorse, and terrors ofimpending detection.\
3155:shrieks soon reached the ears of the Hostess, whose terror and surprize were excessive on learning the cause of this disturbance. A Physician was immediately sent for: But on the first moment of beholding the Corse, He declared\
3256:The perusal of this story was ill calculated to dispel Antonia\'92s melancholy. She had naturally a strong inclination to the marvellous; and her Nurse who be- lieved firmly in Apparitions, had related\'92 to her when an Infant so many horrible adventures of this kind, that all Elvira\'92s attempts had failed to eradicate their impres- sions from her Daughter\'92s mind. Antonia still nourished a superstitious prejudice in her bosom: She was often susceptible of terrors, which when She discovered their natural and insignificant cause made her blush at her own weakness. With such a turn of mind, the adventure which She had just been reading, sufficed to give her apprehensions the alarm. The hour and the scene combined to authorize them. It was the dead of night: She was alone, and in the chamber once occupied by her deceased Mother. The weather was comfortless and stormy: The wind howled around the House, the doors rattled in their frames, and the heavy rain pattered\
3262:She passed some minutes in this situation, after which her terrors began to diminish. She strove to recover herself, and acquire strength enough to quit the room: Suddenly She fancied, that She heard a low sigh drawn near her. This idea brought back her former weakness. She had already raised herself from her seat, and was on the point of taking the Lamp from the Table. The imaginary noise stopped her: She drew back her hand, and supported herself upon the back of a Chair. She listened anxiously, but nothing more was heard.\
3264:Her reflections were interrupted by a noise at the door scarcely audible: It seemed as if somebody was whispering. Antonia\'92s alarm increased: Yet the Bolt She knew to be fastened, and this idea in some degree re-assured her. Presently the Latch was lifted up softly, and the Door moved with caution backwards and forwards. Excess of terror now supplied Antonia with that strength, of which She had till then been deprived. She started from her place, and made towards the-Closet door, whence She might soon have reached the chamber where She expected to find Flora and Dame Jacintha. Scarcely had She reached the middle of the room, when the Latch was lifted up a second time. An involuntary movement obliged her to turn her head. Slowly and\
3362:Jacintha\'92s account, the absurdity refuted itself; The Abbot hesitated not to believe, that She had fabricated the whole story, either confused by terror, or hoping to\
3407:dreaded was now at an end, Flora was so much worked upon by his easy compliance, that She began to doubt the justice of her suspicions. As She lighted him down Stairs, She thanked him for having endeavoured to root out from Antonia\'92s mind her superstitious terrors of the\
3425:this assay depended all his hopes. With every instant his impatience redoubled; His terrors grew more lively, his anxiety more awake. Unable to bear this state of incerti- tude, He endeavoured to divert it by substituting the thoughts of Others to his own. The Books, as was before mentioned, were ranged upon shelves near the Table:\
3442:\'91Absurd terrors!\'92 He cried at length, ashamed of his own weakness\
3469:\'91Oh! Father! Father!\'92 She cried in a voice almost choaked with terror; \'91What shall I do! What shall I do! Here is a fine piece of work! Nothing but misfortunes! Nothing but dead people, and dying people! Oh! I shall go distracted! I shall go distracted!\'92\
3567:her discourse, while at every word the Domina\'92s coun- tenance betrayed her increasing terrors.\
3602:moment ofpopular phrenzy even thisdreadful name had lost its effect. Though regret for his Sister made him look upon the Prioress with abhorrence, Lorenzo could not help pitying aWoman ina situation so terrible: But in spite of all his exertions, and those of the Duke, of Don Ramirez, and the Archers, the People continued to press onwards. They forced a passage through the Guards who protected their destined Victim, dragged. her from her shelter, and proceeded to take upon her a most summary and cruel vengeance. Wild with terror, and scarcely knowing what She said, the wretched Woman shrieked for a moment\'92s mercy: She protested that She was\
3634:He had heard, seemed uttered in a voice of terror, and He was convinced that some mystery was attached to this event. After some minutes past in hesitation He continued to proceed, feeling his way along the walls of the passage. He had already past some time in this slow progress, when He descried a spark of light glimmer- ing at a distance. Guided by this observation, and having drawn his sword, He bent his steps towards the place,\
3652:\'91Excuse me,\'92 replied Lorenzo, \'91if I am surprized, that while menaced by real woes you are capable of yielding to imaginary dangers. These terrors are puerile and groundless: Combat them, holy Sister; Ihave promised to guard you from the Rioters, but against the attacks of\
3653:superstition you must depend for protection upon your- self. The idea of Ghosts is ridiculous in the extreme; And ifyou continue to be swayed by ideal terrors...... ?\
3662:\'91Hark! Hark! interrupted Virginia in a voice of terror;\'91God preserve us! There itisagain!\'92\
3666:\'91There, Segnor!\'92 said Helena; \'91Now you must be con- vinced! You have heard the noise yourself! Now judge, whether our terrors are imaginary. Since we have been here, that groaning has been repeated almost every five minutes. Doubtless, it proceeds from some Soul in pain, who wishes to be prayed out of purgatory: But none of us here dares ask it the question. As for me, were I to see an Apparition, the fright, Iam very certain, would kill me out ofhand.\'92\
3690: Finding that nothing followed this discovery, He descended. As He took his hand from the Saint, She trembled beneath his touch. This created new terrors in\
3790:\'91Help! Help, for God\'92s sake! cried a voice, whose melodious tone penetrated Lorenzo\'92s heart with terror.\
3837:\'91Why these terrors, Antonia?\'92 rejoined the Abbot, folding her in his arms, and covering her bosom with kisses which She in vain struggled to avoid: \'91What fear you from me, from one who adores you? What matters it where you are? This Sepulchre seems to me Love\'92s bower; This gloom is the friendly night of mystery, which He spreads over our delights! Such do I think it, and such must my Antonia. Yes, my sweet Girl! Yes! Your veins shall glow with fire, which circles in mine,\
3851:With every moment the Friar\'92s passion became more ardent, and Antonia\'92s terror more intense. She struggled to disengage herself from his arms: Her exertions were\
3854:himself by her side: He clasped her to his bosom almost lifeless with terror, and faint with struggling. He stifled her cries with kisses, treated her with the rudeness of an unprincipled Barbarian, proceeded from freedom to freedom, and in the violence of his lustful delirium, wounded and bruised her tender limbs. Heedless of her\
3876:Saint ane his brain to be turned, Antonia sank ir terror upon her knees: She lifted up her hands, and her voice almost died away, ere She could give itutterance.\
3886:armed with double terrors. Yet should He restore Antonia to light, and stand the chance of her betraying him, how miserable a prospect would present itself before her. She could never hope to be creditably estab- lished; She would be marked with infamy, and con- demned to sorrow and solitude for the remainder of her existence: What was the alternative? A resolution far more terrible for Antonia, but which at least would in- sure the Abbot\'92s safety. He determined to leave the world persuaded of her death, and to retain her a captive in this gloomy prison: There He proposed to visit her every night, to bring her food, to profess his penitence, and mingle his tears with hers. The Monk felt that this resolution was unjust and cruel; but itwas his only means to prevent Antonia, from publishing his guilt and her own infamy. Should He release her, He could not depend upon her silence: His offence was too flagrant to permit his hoping for her forgiveness. Besides, her re-appearing would excite universal curiosity, and the violence of her affliction would prevent her from concealing its cause. He determined therefore, that Antonia should remain a\
4016:A full hour elapsed, before I was sufficiently myself to examine the surrounding Objects. When I did examine them, what terror filled my bosom I found myself ex- tended upon a sort of wicker Couch: It had six handles to\
4027:were seen on every side: Skulls, shoulder-blades, thigh- bones, and other leavings of Mortality were scattered upon the dewy ground. Each Tomb was ornamented with a large Crucifix, and in one corner stood a wooder Statue of St. Clare. To these objects I at first paid ne attention: A Door, the only outlet from the Vault, hac attracted my eyes. Ihastened towards it,having wrappec my winding-sheet closely round me. I pushed against the door, and to my inexpressible terror found that it was fastened on the outside.\
4045:I started back in terror. The Domina descended into the Vault, as did also her Companions. She bent upon me a stern resentful eye, but expressed no surprize at finding me still living. She took the seat which I had just quitted: The door was again closed, and the Nuns ranged them- selves behind their Superior, while the glare of their\
4071:My blood ran cold, as I gazed upon this melancholy abode. The cold vapours hovering in the air, the walls green with damp, the bed of Straw so forlorn and com- fortless, the Chain destined to bind me for ever to my prison, and the Reptiles of every description which as the torches advanced towards them, I descried hurrying to their retreats, struck my heart with terrors almost too ex-\
4082:which Ihad already eyed with terror, was wound around mywaist,andfastenedmetotheWall. ALampglimmer- ing with dull, melancholy rays through my dungeon, per- mitted my distinguishing allitshorrors: Itwas separated from the Cavern by a low and irregular Wall of Stone: A large Chasm was left open in it which formed the\
4086:With a despondent eye did I examine this scene of suffering: When I reflected, that Iwas doomed to pass in it the remainder of my days, my heart was rent with bitter anguish. I had once been taught to look forward to a lot so different! At one time my prospects had ap- peared so bright, so flattering! Now all was lost to me. Friends, comfort, society, happiness, in one moment I was deprived of all! Dead to the world, Dead to pleasure, I lived to nothing but the sense of misery. How fair did that world seem to me, from which I was for ever excluded! How many loved objects did itcontain, whom I never should behold again! As I threw a look of terror round my prison, as I shrunk from the cutting wind, which howled through my subterraneous dwelling, the change seemed so striking, so abrupt, that I doubted its reality. That the Duke de Medina\'92s Niece, that the des- tined Bride of the Marquis de las Cisternas, One bred up in affluence, related to the noblest families in Spain, and rich in a multitude of affectionate Friends, that She should in one moment become a Captive, separated from the world for ever, weighed down with chains, and re-\
4116:unable to rise from the bed of Straw, and exercise my limbs in the narrow limits, to which the length of my chain permitted me to move. Though exhausted, faint, and weary, I trembled to profit by the approach of Sleep: My slumbers were constantly interrupted by some obnoxious Insect crawling over me. Sometimes I felt the bloated Toad, hideous and pampered with the poisonous vapours of the dungeon, dragging his loathsome length along my bosom: Sometimes the quick cold Lizard rouzed me leaving his slimy track upon my face, and entangling itself in the tresses of my wild and matted hair: Often have I at waking found my fingers ringed with the long worms, which bred in the corrupted flesh of my Infant. At such times I shrieked with terror and disgust, and while I shook off the reptile, trembled with all aWoman\'92s weakness.\
4154:The remaining years of Raymond and Agnes, o: Lorenzo and Virginia, were happy as can be those allotted to Mortals, born to be the prey of grief, and sport of disappointment. The exquisite sorrows with which they had been afflicted, made them think lightly of every succeeding woe. They had felt the sharpest darts in misfortune\'92s quiver; Those which remained appeareG blunt in comparison. Having weathered Fate\'92s heaviest Storms, they looked calmly upon its terrors: or if ever they felt Affliction\'92s casual gales, they seemed to them gentle as Zephyrs, which breathe over summer-seas.\
4163:While his innocence or guilt was debated in Madrid with the utmost acrimony, Ambrosio was a prey to the pangs ofconscious villainy, and the terrors ofpunishment impending over him. When He looked back to the eminence on which He had lately stood, universally honoured and respected, at peace with the world and with himself, scarcely could He believe that He was indeed the culprit, whose crimes and whose fate He trembled to envisage. But a few weeks had elapsed, since He was pure and virtuous, courted by the wisest and noblest in Madrid, and regarded by the People with a reverence that approached idolatry: He now saw himself stained with the most loathed and monstrous sins, the object of uni- versal execration, a Prisoner of the Holy Office, and probably doomed to perish in tortures the most severe. He could not hope to deceive his Judges: The proofs of his guilt were too strong. His being in the Sepulchre at so\
4195:Returned to his dungeon, the sufferings of Ambrosio\'92s body were far more supportable than those of his mind. His dislocated limbs, the nails torn from his hands and feet, and his fingers mashed and broken by the pressure of screws, were far surpassed in anguish by the agitation of his soul, and vehemence of his terrors. He saw, that guilty or innocent hisJudges were bent upon condemning him: The remembrance of what his denial had already cost him, terrified him at the idea of being again applied to the question, and almost engaged him to confess his crimes. Then again the consequences of his confession flashed before him, and rendered him once more irreso- lute. His death would be inevitable, and that a death the most dreadful: He had listened to Matilda\'92s doom, and doubted not that a similar was reserved for him. He shuddered at the approaching Auto da F\'e9, at the idea of perishing in flames, and only escaping from indurable torments to pass into others more subtile and ever-lasting!\
4196:With affright did He bend his mind\'92s eye on the space beyond the grave; nor could hide from himself, how justly he ought to dread Heaven\'92s vengeance. In this Labyrinth of terrors, fain would He have taken his refuge in the gloom of Atheism: Fain would He have denied the soul\'92s immortality; have persuaded himself that when his eyes once closed, they would never more open, and that\
4205:Persuaded of this, instead of humbling himself in peni- tence, of deploring his guilt, and employing his few re- maining hours in deprecating Heaven\'92s wrath, He aban- doned himself to the transports of desperate rage; He sorrowed for the punishment of his crimes, not their com- mission ;and exhaled his bosom\'92s anguish in idle sighs, in vain lamentations, in blasphemy and despair. As the few beams of day, which pierced through the bars of his prison-window, gradually disappeared, and their place was supplied by the pale and glimmering Lamp, He felt his terrors redouble, and his ideas become more gloomy, more solemn, more despondent. He dreaded the ap-\
4212:recounted his crimes to the Demons, and urged them to inflict torments of cruelty yet more refined. Such were the pictures, which floated before his eyes in sleep: They vanished not till his repose was disturbed by excess of agony. Then would He start from the ground on which He had stretched himself, his brows running down with cold sweat, his eyes wild and phrenzied; and He only exchanged the terrible certainty for surmizes scarcely more supportable. He paced his dungeon with disordered steps; He gazed with terror upon the surrounding dark- ness, and often did He cry,\
4215:him not to sleep. His terrors were so violent, as nearly to annihilate his mental powers. He sat like one stupefied near the Table on which his Lamp was burning dimly.\
4254:He was still in this attitude, when the opening of the prison-door rouzed him from his stupor. He was sum- moned to appear before the Grand Inquisitor. He rose, and followed his Gaoler with painful steps. He was led into the same Hall, placed before the same Examiners, and was again interrogated, whether He would confess. He replied as before, that having no crimes, He could ac- knowledge none: But when the Executioners prepared to put him to the question, when He saw the engines of torture, and remembered the pangs, which they had already inflicted, his resolution failed him entirely. For- getting the consequences, and only anxious to escape the terrors of the present moment, He made an ample confession. He disclosed every circumstance of his guilt,\
4260:Ambrosio rather dead than alive was left alone in his dungeon. The moment in which this terrible decree was pronounced, had nearly proved that of his dissolution. He looked forward to the morrow with despair, and his terrors increased with the approach of midnight. Some- times He was buried in gloomy silence: At others He raved with delirious passion, wrung his hands, and cursed the hour, when He first beheld the light. In one of these moments his eye rested upon Matilda\'92s mysterious gift. His transports of rage were instantly suspended. He looked earnestly at the Book; He took it up, but im- mediately threw it from him with horror. He walked rapidly up and down his dungeon: Then stopped, and again fixed his eyes on the spot where the Book had fallen. He reflected, that here at least was a resource from the fate which He dreaded. He stooped, and took it up a second time. He remained for some time trembling and irresolute: He longed to try the charm, yet feared its con-\
4265:the Cell; and in the next moment, borne upon sulphu- rous whirl-winds, Lucifer stood before him a second time. But He came not, as when at Matilda\'92s summons He borrowed the Seraph\'92s form to deceive Ambrosio. He appeared in all that ugliness, which since his fall from heaven had been his portion: His blasted limbs still bore marks of the Almighty\'92s thunder: A swarthy darkness spread itself over his gigantic form: His hands and feet were armed with long Talons: Fury glared in his eyes, which might have struck the bravest heart with terror: Over his huge shoulders waved two enormous sable wings; and his hair was supplied by living snakes, which twined themselves round his brows with frightful hissings. In one hand He held a roll of parchment, and in the other an iron pen. Still the lightning flashed around him, and the Thunder with repeated bursts, seemed to an- nounce the dissolution of Nature.\
4299:Enemy: But as the hour of punishment drew near, his former terrors revived in his heart. Their momentary repose seemed to have given them fresh vigour. The nearer that the time approached, the more did He dread\
4301:turned hastily to the seventh page, and as if fearing to allow himself amoment\'92s thought ran over the fatal lines with rapidity. Accompanied by his former terrors, Luci- fer again stood before the Trembler.\
4315:Ambrosio took up the Pen; He set it to the Parchment. Again his courage failed him: He felt a pang of terror at his heart, and once more threw the Pen upon the Table.\
4325:\'91I am yours for ever and irrevocably!\'92 cried the Monk wild with terror: \'91Iabandon allclaim tosalvation! Iown\
4339:\'91round him a look of terror. His infernal Conductor was still by his side, and eyed him with a look of mingled\
4357:stupefied by terror and surprize. This last declaration rouzed him.\
\
\
\
\
\

\f0\b chris@christophers-MacBook-Air-2 python % grep -n "horror" monk.txt\

\f1\b0 \
803:who officiated as Surgeon to the Fraternity, prepared te examine the wound. By this time Ambrosio\'92s hand had swelled to an extraordinary size; The remedies which had been administered to him, \'92tis true, restored him to life, but not to his senses; He raved in all the horrors of delirium, foamed at the mouth, and four of the strongest Monks were scarcely able to hold him in his bed.\
934:There was a dreadful expression in her eye as She uttered these words, which penetrated the Friar\'92s soul with horror: Again She kissed his hand, and then fled with rapidity from the chamber.\
943:He found himself so perfectly recovered, that when Father Pablos visited him again at night, He entreated permission to quit his chamber on the day following. His request was granted. Matilda appeared no more that evening, except in company with the Monks when they came in a body to enquire after the Abbot\'92s health. She seemed fearful of conversing with him in private, and stayed but a few minutes in his room. The Friar slept well; But the dreams of the former night were repeated, and his sensations of voluptuousness were yet more keen and ex- quisite. The same lust-exciting visions floated before his eyes: Matilda, in all the pomp of beauty, warm, tender, and luxurious, clasped him to her bosom, and lavished upon him the most ardent caresses. He returned them as eagerly, and already was on the point of satisfying his desires, when the faithless form disappeared, and left him to all the horrors ofshame and disappointment.\
1198:conductor ushered me into a chamber, where an excellent wood-fire was blazing upon the hearth. He placed the light upon the Table, enquired whether I had any further commands, and on my replying in the negative, He left me to myself. You may be certain, that the moment when I found myself alone, was that on which I complied with Marguerite\'92s injunction. I took the candle, hastily approached the Bed, and turned down the Coverture. What was my astonishment, my horror, at finding the sheets crimsoned with blood!\
1369:profession. These He concealed from me with the utmost care; He was conscious, that my sentiments were not sufficiently depraved to look without horror upon assassination: He supposed, and with justice, that I should fly with detestation from the embraces of a Murderer. Eight years of possession had not abated his love forme; and He cautiously removed from my know- ledge every circumstance, which might lead me to suspect the crimes in which He but too often participated. He succeeded perfectly: It was not till after my Seducer\'92s death, that I discovered his hands to have been stained\
1379:My Children were in the power of Baptiste, and He had sworn that ifI attempted to escape, their lives should pay for it. Ihad had too many opportunities of witnessing the barbarity of his nature, to doubt his fulfilling his oath to the very letter. Sad experience had convinced me of the horrors of my situation: My first Lover had carefully concealed them from me; Baptiste rather rejoiced in opening my eyes to the cruelties of his profession, and strove to familiarise me with blood and slaughter.\
1588:Father; I must depart immediately for Madrid, and \'92tis with difficulty that I have obtained a week\'92s delay. The superstition of my Parents, supported by the representa- tions of my cruel Aunt, leaves me no hope of softening them to compassion. In this dilemma I have resolved to commit myself to your honour: God grant, that you may never give me cause to repent my resolution! Flight is my only resource from the horrors of aConvent, and my imprudence must be excused by the urgency of the danger. Now listen to the plan, by which I hope to effect my escape.\
1637:of the Visionary Inhabitant, made me sensible of a sad and reverential horror. Yet did not these sensations occupy me so fully, as to prevent me from witnessing with\
1682:I gazed upon the Spectre with horror too great to be described. My blood was frozen in my veins. I would have called for aid, but the sound expired, ere it could pass my lips. My nerves were bound up in impotence, and I remained in the same attitude inanimate as a Statue.\
1702:The fatigue of my body from not having slept on the former night co-operating with the strong opiates ad- ministered to me in profusion at length procured me that repose of which I was so much in need. I sank into a profound and tranquil slumber, and had already slept for some hours, when the neighbouring Clock rouzed me by striking \'91One\'92. Its sound brought with it to my memory all the horrors of the night before. The same cold.shivering seized me. I started up in my bed, and perceived the Servant fast asleep in an armed-Chair near me. I called him by his name: He made no answer. I shook him forcibly by the arm, and strove in vain to wake him. He was perfectly insensible to my efforts. Inow heard the heavy steps ascending the stair-case; The Door\
1708:Even night was this repeated. Far from growing accustomed to the Ghost, every succeeding visit inspired _ me with greater horror. Her idea pursued me continually,\
1752:Theodore was surprised at the vivacity of my manner: However, He asked no questions, but hastened to obey me. I waited his return impatiently. But a short space of time had elapsed when He again appeared, and ushered the expected Guest into my chamber. He was a Man of majestic presence *His countenance was strongly marked, and his eyes were large, black, and sparkling: Yet there was a something in his look, which the moment that I saw him, inspired me with a secret awe, not to say horror. He was drest plainly, his hair was unpowdered, and a band of black velvet which encircled his fore-head, spread over his features an additional gloom. His countenance wore the marks of profound melancholy; his step was slow, and his manner grave, stately, and solemn.\
1773:his fore-head. There was in his eyes an expression of fury, despair, and malevolence, that struck horror to my very soul. An involuntary convulsion made me shudder. The Stranger perceived it.\
1800:band from his fore-head. In spite of his injunctions to the contrary, Curiosity would not suffer me to keep my eyes off his face*I raised them, and beheld a burning Cross impressed upon his brow. For the horror with which this object inspired me I cannot account, but I never felt its equal! My senses left me for some moments; A mys- terious dread overcame my courage, and had not the Exorciser caught my hand, I should have fallen out of the Circle.\
1801:When I recovered myself, I perceived that the burning Cross had produced an effect no less violent upon the Spectre. Her countenance expressed reverence, and horror, and her visionary limbs were shaken by fear.\
1826:prayers and blasphemies. Otto was unable to withstand the shock, which He felt at this fearful Vision: Its horror increased with every succeeding appearance: His alarm at length became so insupportable, that his heart burst, and one morning He was found in his bed totally deprived of warmth and animation. His death did not put an end to the nocturnal riots. The bones of Beatrice continued to lie unburied, and her Ghost continued to\
1840:that burning Cross upon your fore-head, and why did the sight of it strike such horror to my soul ?\'92\
1926:\'91Scarcely was the first burst of passion past, when Agnes recovering herself started from my arms with horror. She called me infamous Seducer, loaded me with the bitterest reproaches, and beat her bosom in all the\
2326:Lorenzo started back with horror, and turned pale. A moment\'92s recollection convinced him, that this assertion must be false, and it restored him to himself.\
2333:_and think her a disgrace to the Sister-hood of St.Clare: But She has forfeited my affection in a manner yet more culpable. Her crimes were great, and when you know the cause of her death, you will doubtless rejoice, Don Lorenzo, that such a Wretch is no longer in existence. She was taken ill on Thursday last on returning from confession in the Capuchin-Chapel. Her malady seemed attended. with strange circumstances; But She persisted in concealing its cause: Thanks to the Virgin, we were too ignorant to suspect it! Judge then what must have been our consternation, our horror, when She was delivered the next day ofa still-born Child, whom She immediately followed to the Grave. How, Segnor? Is it possible, that your countenance expresses no surprize, no indignation? Is it possible, that your Sister\'92s infamy was known to you, and that still She possessed your affection? In that case, you have no need of my com- passion. I can say nothing more, except repeat my\
2346:THE BURST OF transport was past: Ambrosio\'92s lust was satisfied; Pleasure fled, and Shame usurped her seat in his bosom. Confused and terrified at his weakness He drew himself from Matilda\'92s arms. His perjury presented itself before him: He reflected on the scene which had just been acted, and trembled at the consequences of a discovery. He looked forward with horror; His heart was despondent, and became the abode of satiety and disgust. He avoided the eyes of his Partner in frailty; A melancholy silence prevailed, during which Both seemed busied with disagreable reflections.\
2369:\'91Yes!\'92 replied Matilda; \'91Since you have made me feel that Life is valuable, I will rescue mine at any rate. No dangers shall appall me: I will look upon the con- sequences of my action boldly, nor shudder at the horrors which they present. I will think my sacrifice scarcely worthy to purchase your possession, and remember, that a moment past in your arms in this world, o\'92er-pays an age of punishment in the next. But before I take this step, Ambrosio, give me your solemn oath never to enquire, by what means I shall preserve myself.\'92\
2384:excesses whose very idea but four and twenty hours before He had recoiled at with horror. He shuddered at reflecting, that a trifling indiscretion on his part, or on Matilda\'92s, would overturn that fabric of reputation which it had cost him thirty years to erect, and render him the abhorrence of that People of whom He was then the Idol. Conscience painted to him in glaring colours his perjury and weakness; Apprehension magnified to him the horrors of punishment, and He already fancied himself in the prisons of the Inquisition. To these tormenting ideas, succeeded Matilda\'92s beauty, and those delicious lessons, which once learnt can never be for- gotten. A single glance thrown upon these reconciled him with himself. He considered the pleasures of the former night to have been purchased at an easy price by the sacrifice of innocence and honour. Their very\
2394:fire and wildness, which impressed the Monk at once with awe and horror. A determined desperate courage reigned upon her brow. She gave the Lamp to Ambrosio; Then taking from him the Key, She unlocked the low Door, and entered the Cemetery. It was a vast and spacious Square planted with yew-trees: Half of it belonged to the Abbey; The other half was the property of the Sister-hood of St. Clare, and was protected by a\
2475:natural spirit, the Monks terrified his young mind, by placing before him all the horrors with which Super- stition could furnish them: They painted to him the torments of the Damned in colours the most dark, terrible, and fantastic, and threatened him at the slightest fault with eternal perdition. No wonder, that his imagina- tion constantly dwelling upon these fearful objects should have rendered his character timid and appre- hensive. Add to this, that his long absence from the great\
2653:By glimmering through thy low-browed misty vaults, Furred round with mouldy damps, and ropy slime, Lets fall a supernumerary horror,\
2770:\'93To look upon guilt with horror, Matilda, is in itself a\
2779:\'91Oh! cease, Matilda! That scoffing tone, that bold and impious language is horrible in every mouth, but most so in a Woman\'92s. Let us drop a conversation, which excites no other sentiments than horror and disgust. I will not follow you to the Sepulchre, or accept the services of your infernal Agents. Antonia shall be mine, but mine by human means.\'92\
2818:At that moment an idea which flashed into his mind, almost petrified him with horror. He started, and shuddered athimself.\
2829:none but the most revolting objects; Skulls, Bones, Graves, and Images whose eyes seemed to glare on them with horror and surprize. At length they reached a spacious Cavern, whose lofty roof the eye sought in vain to discover. A profound obscurity hovered through the void. Damp vapours struck cold to the Friar\'92s heart; and He listened sadly to the blast, while it howled along the lonely Vaults. Here Matilda stopped. She turned to Ambrosio. His cheeks and lips were pale with apprehen- sion. By a glance of mingled scorn and anger She reproved his pusillanimity, but She spoke not. She placed\
2936:near the Altar in the miraculous Chapel: The Monks were proceeding to array the Statue in her best apparel. The Pilgrims were ordered to close their eyes during this ceremony: But though by nature extremely religious, curiosity was too powerful. At the moment ..... I shall penetrate you with horror, reverend Ladies, when I reveal my crime! .... At the moment that the Monks were changing her shift, I ventured to open my left eye, and gave a little peep towards the Statue. That look was my last! The Glory which surrounded the Virgin was too great to be supported. I hastily shut my sacrilegious eye,\
3035:let your intention be known: Should a syllable be dropt to excite the Domina\'92s suspicions, you will never hear of me more. Be cautious, ifyou prize the memory of Agnes, and wish to punish her Assassins. I have that to tell, will freeze your blood with horror. St. Ursula.\
3044:without great exertion He could neither speak or more. Having past an hour by his Bed-side, Lorenzo left him to communicate his design to his Uncle, as also to give Don Ramirez de Mello the Cardinal\'92s letter. The First was petrified with horror, when He learnt the fate of his unhappy Niece: He encouraged Lorenzo to punish her Assassins, and engaged to accompany him at night to\
3136:AMBROSIO SHUDDERED AT himself, when He reflected on his rapid advances in iniquity. The enormous crime which He had just committed, filled him with real horror. The murdered Elvira was continually before his eyes, and his guilt was already punished by the agonies of his con- science. Time, however, considerably weakened these\
3152:hastily, and was speeding to enquire how her Mother \'91had passed the night, when her foot struck against something which lay in her passage. She looked down. What was her horror at recognizing Elvira\'92s livid Corse!\
3154:\'93her assistance. The sight which She beheld penetrated her with horror; but her alarm was more audible than Antonia\'92s. She made the House ring with her lamenta- tions, while her Mistress almost suffocated with grief could only mark her distress by sobs and groans. Flora\'92s\
3353:acquaintance. At this moment, when penetrated with horror at the scene which had just past, and dreading to contemplate the Ghost\'92s prediction, her mind had need of all the succours of friendship and religion, Antonia regarded the Abbot with an eyc doubly partial. That strong prepossession in his favour still existed, which She had felt for him at first sight: She fancied, vet knew not wherefore, that his presence was a safe-guard to her from every danger, insult, or misfortune. She thanked him gratefully for his visit, and related to him the ad- venture, which had alarmed her so seriously.\
3423:tion of fancy, his mind was impressed with a certain mysterious horror. He in vain endeavoured to shake it off. The silence of the night, the story of the Apparition, the chamber wainscotted with dark oak pannells, the recollection which it brought with it of the murdered Elvira, and his incertitude respecting the nature of the\
3557:freeze every honest soul with horror. Mine is the task to rend the veil from Hypocrisy, and show misguided Parents to what dangers the Woman isexposed, who falls under the sway of a monastic Tyrant.\
3585:single cry, or hesitated a single moment to drink the poison, She would pierce her heart that instant. Already half-dead with fear, She could make no further resist- ance. The Nun approached with the fatal Goblet. The Domina obliged her to take it,and swallow the contents. She drank, and the horrid deed was accomplished. The Nuns then seated themselves round the Bed. They answered her groans with reproaches; They interrupted with sarcasms the prayers in which She recommended her parting soul to mercy: They threatened her with heaven\'92s vengeance and eternal perdition: They bad her despair of pardon, and strowed with yet sharper thorns Death\'92s painful pillow. Such were the sufferings of this young Unfortunate, till released by fate from the malice of her Tormentors. She expired in horror of the past, in fears for the future; and her agonies were such as must have amply gratified the hate and vengeance of her Enemies. As soon as her Victim ceased to breathe, the Domina retired, and was followed by her Accomplices.\
3596:Here St. Ursula ended her narrative. It created horror and surprize throughout: But when She related the inhuman murder of Agnes, the indignation of the Mob was so audibly testified, that it was scarcely possible to hear the conclusion. This confusion increased with every moment: At length a multitude of voices exclaimed, that the Prioress should be given up to their fury. To this\
3605:Unable to prevent this shocking event, Lorenzo and his Friends had beheld it with the utmost horror: But they were rouzed from their compelled inactivity, on hearing that the Mob was attacking the Convent of St. Clare. The incensed Populace, confounding the innocent\
3617:The Walls were soon shaken by the devouring element: The Columns gave way: The Roofs came tumbling down upon the Rioters, and crushed many of them beneath their weight. Nothing was to be heard but shrieks and groans; The Convent was wrapped in flames, and the whole presented a scene of devastation and horror.\
3708: It proceeded from a small Lamp which was placed upon an heap of stones, and whose faint and melancholy rays served rather to point out, than dispell the horrors of a narrow gloomy dungeon formed in one side of the Cavern; It also showed several other recesses of similar construction, but whose depth was buried in obscurity. Coldly played the light upon the damp walls, whose dew- stained surface gave back a feeble reflection. A thick and\
3718:Lorenzo stopped: He was petrified with horror. He\
3817:the same state. As the memory of that horrid act glanced upon his mind, it was clouded with a gloomy horror. Yet it served but to strengthen his resolution to destroy Antonia\'92s honour.\
3843:\'91Unhand me, Father!\'92 She cried, her honest indigna- tion tempered by alarm at her unprotected position; \'91Why have you brought me to this place? Its appearance freezes me with horror! Convey me from hence, ifyou have the least sense of pity and humanity! Let me return to the House, which I have quitted I know not how; But stay here one moment longer, I neither will, or ought.\'92\
3868:be too just, and my crimes too notorious! You shall not from hence to tell Madrid that I am a Villain; that my conscience isloaded with sins, which make me despair of Heaven\'92s pardon. Wretched Girl, you must stay here with me! Here amidst these lonely Tombs, these images of Death, these rotting loathsome corrupted bodies! Here shall you stay, and witness my sufferings; witness, what it is to die in the horrors of despondency, and breathe the last groan in blasphemy and curses! And who-am I to thank for this? What seduced me into\
3879:He quitted her, and paced the dungeon with a wild and disordered air. His eyes rolled fearfully: Antonia trembled, whenever She met their gaze. He seemed to meditate on something horrible, and She gave up all hopes of escaping from the Sepulchre with life. Yet in harbouring this idea, She did him injustice. Amidst the horror and disgust to which his soul was a prey, pity for his Victim still held a place in it. The storm of passion once over, He would have given worlds had He possest them, to have restored to her that innocence, of which his unbridled lust had deprived her. Of the desires which had urged him to the crime, no trace was left in his bosom: The wealth of India would not have tempted him to a second enjoyment of her person. His nature seemed\
3888:sentiment. There was something in her look which penetrated him with horror; and though his under- standing was stillignorant ofit,Conscience pointed out to him the whole extent of his crime. In hurried accents yet the gentlest He could find, while his eye was averted, and his voice scarcely audible, He strove to console her\
4014:My supposed death was attended with the greatest agonies. Those moments which I believed my last, were embittered by the Domina\'92s assurances, that I could not e cape perdition; and as my eyes closed, I heard her rage exhale itself in curses, on my offence. The horror of this situation, of adeath-bed from which hope was banished, of a sleep from which I was only to wake to find myself the prey of flames and Furies, was more dreadful than I can describe. When animation revived in me, my soul was still impressed with these terrible ideas: I looked round with fear, expecting to behold the Ministers of divine vengeance. For the first hour, my senses were so bewildered, and my brain so dizzy, that I strove in vain to arrange the strange images which floated in wild confusion before me. If I endeavoured to raise myself\
4020:light which streamed through the Bars, permitted me to distinguish the surrounding horrors. I was opprest by a noisome suffocating smell; and perceiving that the grated door was unfastened, I thought that I might possibly effect my escape. As I raised myself with this design, my hand rested upon something soft: I grasped it, and ad- vanced it towards the light. Almighty God! What was my disgust, my consternation! In spite of its putridity, and the worms which preyed upon it, I perceived a cor- rupted human head, and recognised the features of a Nun who had died some months before! I threw it\
4028:I guessed immediately, that the Prioress mistaking the nature of the liquor which She had compelled me te drink, instead ofpoison had administered astrong Opiate. From this I concluded, that being to all appearance dead I had received the rites of burial; and that deprived of the power of making my existence known, it would be my fate to expire of hunger. This idea penetrated me with horror, not merely for my own sake, but that of the inno- cent Creature, who still lived within my bosom. I again\
4082:which Ihad already eyed with terror, was wound around mywaist,andfastenedmetotheWall. ALampglimmer- ing with dull, melancholy rays through my dungeon, per- mitted my distinguishing allitshorrors: Itwas separated from the Cavern by a low and irregular Wall of Stone: A large Chasm was left open in it which formed the\
4115:Thus did I drag on a miserable existence. Far from growing familiar with my prison, I beheld it every moment with new horror. The cold seemed more pierc- ing and bitter, the air more thick and pestilential. My frame became weak, feverish, and emaciated. I was\
4225:Yet were itin my power to go back, I would not. Oh! my Friend, to expire in such torments! To die amidst curses and execrations! To bear the insults of an exasperated Mob! To be exposed to all the mortifications of shame and infamy! Who can reflect without horror on such a doom? Let me then exult in my exchange. I have sold\
4237:\'91Weak Man, pass but this night, and how dreadful will be your own! Do you remember what you have already endured? To-morrow you must bear torments doubly exquisite. Do you remember the horrors of a fiery punishment? In two days you must be led a Victim to the Stake! What then will become of you? Still dare you\
4256:part He had never entered into any compact with the infernal Spirits; But the threat of being tortured made him declare himself to be a Sorcerer, and Heretic, and whatever other title the Inquisitors chose to fix upon him. In consequence of this avowal, his sentence was im- mediately pronounced. He was ordered to prepare him- self to perish in the Auto da F\'e9, which was to be solem- nized at twelve o\'92clock that night. This hour was chosen from the idea, that the horror of the flames being heigh-\
4260:Ambrosio rather dead than alive was left alone in his dungeon. The moment in which this terrible decree was pronounced, had nearly proved that of his dissolution. He looked forward to the morrow with despair, and his terrors increased with the approach of midnight. Some- times He was buried in gloomy silence: At others He raved with delirious passion, wrung his hands, and cursed the hour, when He first beheld the light. In one of these moments his eye rested upon Matilda\'92s mysterious gift. His transports of rage were instantly suspended. He looked earnestly at the Book; He took it up, but im- mediately threw it from him with horror. He walked rapidly up and down his dungeon: Then stopped, and again fixed his eyes on the spot where the Book had fallen. He reflected, that here at least was a resource from the fate which He dreaded. He stooped, and took it up a second time. He remained for some time trembling and irresolute: He longed to try the charm, yet feared its con-\
4289:n the conditions proposed with horror: On the other hand, He believed himself doomed to perdition, and that, by refusing the Demon\'92s succour, He only hastened tortures which He never could escape. The Fiend. saw, that his resolution was shaken: He renewed his instances,\
4292:\'91Fool!\'92 exclaimed the disappointed Demon, darting looks so furious as penetrated the Friar\'92s soul with horror; \'91Thus am I trifled with? Go then! Rave in agony, expire in tortures, and then learn the extent of the Eternal\'92s mercy! But beware how you make me again your mock! Call me no more, till resolved to accept my offers !\
chris@christophers-MacBook-Air-2 python %}